[docs] create living guidelines as site articles (#491)
Schiano-NOAA/ASAR: vignettes/articles/std_guidelines.qmd

---

> title: "NMFS Stock Assessment Guidelines"

Reviewer: Minor change to match the menu item name
```suggestion
title: "NMFS Stock Assessment Report Guidelines"
```

format:
  html:
    toc: true
    toc-depth: 3
    anchor-sections: true
    other-links:
      - text: stockplotr
        href: https://nmfs-ost.github.io/stockplotr/
knitr:
  opts_chunk:
    collapse: true
    comment: '#>'
---

## General guidance

> The following sections are a recommended outline for a U.S. fisheries stock assessment report. The goal is to effectively present information to managers to provide the best scientific advice available within a reasonable framework. This effort shifts the focus of assessment documents from being SSC and statistical review focus to more succinct review of information to aid in quicker decision making. {asar} is a tool that can generate a template that will meet the following guidelines. It contains standardized sections, figures, and tables for the user as well as formatting so the title page and authorship sections are not included here. Authors not using the template generated from {asar} should place tables and figures at the end of the document.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following sections are components of a recommended outline for a U.S. fisheries stock assessment report. **The goal of reports created with these guidelines is to effectively present information to managers so as to provide the best scientific advice available within a reasonable framework.** This effort represents a shift in assessment document formatting from a focus on SSC/statistical review towards a more succinct presentation of information to aid in quicker decision-making. Therefore, **the main body of the report should contain the minimum necessary information to inform and provide management advice for the stock; additional materials, including information relevant for evaluation of the stock either during SSC or statistical review, should be placed in the appendix.**

{asar} is a tool that can generate a report template aligning with the following guidelines. As the template contains standardized sections and formatting, some components-- such as the title page and authorship sections-- are not included here as each are generated automatically. Authors not using the template generated from {asar} should place tables and figures at the end of the document.  
```

Reviewer: I took some info from the appendix section and moved it here because I think it's very important for explaining the essential attributes of the main report body vs. appendix. I'd recommend adding a link to the appendix section here too

Note: terms of reference are intended to remain as a stand alone document or can be included in an appendix at the end of the report. Direct answers to the terms of reference should not be included in the body of the stock assessment report. 

## Outline for Stock Assessment Reports

> ### Executive Summary:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Executive Summary
```

> Where possible the executive summary should paraphrase the shared content of the body of the report to minimize redundancy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The executive summary should paraphrase the shared content of the body of the report to minimize redundancy.
```

Reviewer: What do you mean by "shared content"?

Author: The information throughout the report

The executive summary should include the following:

* Short statement describing assessment model used for the current management cycle and any data updates.
* Short summary of reference points, stock status, and projections. In the future, when using the {asar} R package, tables of reference points and projections will be automatically generated.

> ### Introduction:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Introduction
```

> The intent is to keep this section to two to three pages and provide a high level summary of the stock. The intention is to provide enough information in this section so the audience does not need to reference previous documents. Please include the species scientific name at the first mention of its common name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The intent is to keep this section to **2-3 pages** and **provide a high level summary of the stock**. The intention is to provide enough information in this section so the audience does not need to reference previous documents. Please include the species' scientific name at the first mention of its common name.
```

* Stock ID (detailed description if appropriate and quantitative studies or data are behind the decision-making)

> * Management history: Briefly describe the management history of the stock and status. Please only touch on historical policies that would have impacted modeling decisions or would be critical knowledge about the species that might affect its population dynamics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Management History: Briefly describe the management history of the stock and status. Please only touch on historical policies that would have impacted modeling decisions or would be critical knowledge about the species that might affect its population dynamics.
```

> * Assessment history

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Assessment History
```

* Fishery Description: Short summary of fleet composition (i.e., boat types), gear types, species targeted, and fishing grounds (one paragraph)
* Ecosystem Considerations: If this section is not relevant, please ignore; however the default will state “Ecosystem considerations and/or climate indicators were not included in this assessment.”

> ### Data:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Data
```

Please provide relevant data that entered the assessment model including temporal and spatial resolutions, sample size, and units  where appropriate for each of the following:

* Life History (growth, maturity, fecundity, natural mortality, meristics, etc.)
* Catch (retained and discarded)

> * Indices and standardization (Fishery dependent and independent)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Indices and Standardization (Fishery dependent and independent)
```

> * Composition data - age, length (Description, aging error, reweighting)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Composition Data - age, length (Description, aging error, reweighting)
```

> * Absolute abundance (if applicable)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Absolute Abundance (if applicable)
```

> * Environmental/ecosystem indicator data. Please include a blanket statement if none are considered.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Environmental/Ecosystem Indicator Data. Please include a blanket statement if none are considered.
```

### Assessment

Current modeling approach: short general overview of modeling platform including the reference to model paper or online reference. Please include a short description of changes between the approach from the last assessment cycle to the current. Please also note the version of the modelling platform used for this assessment.

* Configuration of the base model: please describe the setup of the stock assessment model. Please also include any environmental relationships/hypotheses that informed the configuration of the base model.
* Bridging: Briefly describe the bridging analysis performed to the previous assessment.
* Modeling Results: for each of the following please describe the results for the base model.
* Parameter Estimates
* Time Series
* Model Fits
* Model Diagnostics
* Sensitivity Analyses

> * Management Benchmarks: decisions on management metrics/benchmarks (i.e. provide a rationale for why a specific F-proxy was recommended for management)

Reviewer: Do you mean "e.g." (an example), as opposed to "i.e."?

Author: Yes! I did not know that's what i.e. meant

* Projections: Description of stock status, biological reference points (BRPs), and trends for each scenario; rebuilding times

> ### Discussion:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Discussion
```

Dependent on analyst/assessment/region; please include sub sections discussing ecosystem considerations (if applicable) and research recommendations/improvements to the assessment

* Research Recommendations

### References

> ### Tables:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Tables
```

> At minimum, please include the following tables into the report (when applicable to the stock). Pre-made figures can be found in the {stockplotr} package downloaded from GitHub.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At minimum, please include the following tables in the report (when applicable to the stock). Semi-automated tables can be made using the [{stockplotr}](github.com/nmfs-ost/stockplotr) package.
```

> At minimum, please include the following tables into the report (when applicable to the stock). Pre-made figures can be found in the {stockplotr} package downloaded from GitHub.

Reviewer: Which tables?

Author: What do you mean?

> ### Figures:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Figures
```

> 

Reviewer: Which figures?

Author: I don't know what you mean

Reviewer: "At minimum, please include the following figures in the report (when applicable to the stock)." implies that a list of recommended figures is going to be provided in this section of the guidelines (same for the tables section). If that's not the case, I think editing it to "Please include report figures in this section." would be much clearer

Author: Ohhh yes good suggestion

> At minimum, please include the following figures into the report (when applicable to the stock). Pre-made figures can be found in the {stockplotr} package downloaded from GitHub.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At minimum, please include the following figures in the report (when applicable to the stock). Semi-automated figures can be made using the [{stockplotr}](github.com/nmfs-ost/stockplotr) package.
```

> ### Appendices: Any information relevant for evaluation of the stock either during SSC or management review should be included in the appendix. The main assessment document should contain the minimum necessary information to inform and provide management advice for the stock while additional materials can be found in the appendix. It is not intended for the appendices to be a catch-all. We highly encourage authors to review the need and irreplaceable value of the report's content when it comes to addressing the audience.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Appendices
Any information relevant for evaluation of the stock either during SSC or statistical review should be included in the appendix. The main assessment document should contain the minimum necessary information to inform and provide management advice for the stock while additional materials can be found in the appendix. It is not intended for the appendices to be a catch-all. We highly encourage authors to review the need and irreplaceable value of the report's content when it comes to addressing the audience.
```

Reviewer: Did you mean to write "either during SSC or management review"? I think you mean "either during SSC or statistical review"?

Author: No it is meant during either because if management requests more info added that is not included in the outline, the only place to put it is in the appendix

* Catch (retained and discarded)
* Indices and Standardization (Fishery dependent and independent)
* Composition Data - age, length (Description, aging error, reweighting)
* Absolute Abundance (if applicable)
* Environmental/Ecosystem Indicator Data. Please include a blanket statement if none are considered.

### Assessment

Current modeling approach: short general overview of modeling platform including the reference to model paper or online reference. Please include a short description of changes between the approach from the last assessment cycle to the current. Please also note the version of the modelling platform used for this assessment.

* Configuration of the base model: please describe the setup of the stock assessment model. Please also include any environmental relationships/hypotheses that informed the configuration of the base model.
* Bridging: Briefly describe the bridging analysis performed to the previous assessment.
* Modeling Results: for each of the following please describe the results for the base model.
* Parameter Estimates
* Time Series
* Model Fits
* Model Diagnostics
* Sensitivity Analyses

> * Management Benchmarks: decisions on management metrics/benchmarks (i.e. provide a rationale for why a specific F-proxy was recommended for management)

Author: ```suggestion
* Management Benchmarks: decisions on management metrics/benchmarks (e.g. provide a rationale for why a specific F-proxy was recommended for management)
```

* Projections: Description of stock status, biological reference points (BRPs), and trends for each scenario; rebuilding times

### Discussion

Dependent on analyst/assessment/region; please include sub sections discussing ecosystem considerations (if applicable) and research recommendations/improvements to the assessment

* Research Recommendations

### References

### Tables

> At minimum, please include the following tables in the report (when applicable to the stock). Semi-automated tables can be made using the [{stockplotr}](github.com/nmfs-ost/stockplotr) package.

Author: ```suggestion
Please include report tables in this section. Semi-automated tables can be made using the [{stockplotr}](github.com/nmfs-ost/stockplotr) package.
```

### Figures

> At minimum, please include the following figures in the report (when applicable to the stock). Semi-automated figures can be made using the [{stockplotr}](github.com/nmfs-ost/stockplotr) package.

Author: ```suggestion
Please include report figures in this section. Semi-automated figures can be made using the [{stockplotr}](github.com/nmfs-ost/stockplotr) package.
```
